# `w-esy`

<br>

To depend on Dream using [esy](https://esy.sh/en/), we use a file `esy.json`.
It's a lot like
[`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json),
and looks like this:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@opam/dream": "1.0.0~alpha4",
    "@opam/dune": "^2.0",
    "ocaml": "4.12.x"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@opam/ocaml-lsp-server": "*"
  },
  "resolutions": {
    "@opam/conf-libev": "esy-packages/libev:package.json#0b5eb6685b688649045aceac55dc559f6f21b829",
    "esy-openssl": "esy-packages/esy-openssl#619ae2d46ca981ec26ab3287487ad98b157a01d1"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "dune exec --root . ./hello.exe"
  }
}
```

<br>

<pre><code><b>$ cd example/w-esy</b>
<b>$ npm install esy && npx esy</b>
<b>$ npx esy start</b>
19.04.21 08:57:33.450                       Running at http://localhost:8080
19.04.21 08:57:33.450                       Type Ctrl+C to stop
</code></pre>

The first time you run `npx esy`, it will take a few minutes installing OCaml
and all the native dependencies inside your project.

<br>

We download the `esy` binary from npm and run it using the
[`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npx) command. Another option is
to install esy globally on your system with

```
npx install -g esy
```

You can then use the `esy` command without the `npx` prefix.

<br>

If you need to run multiple build steps before `dune exec`, use
[`esy.build`](https://esy.sh/docs/en/configuration.html#esybuild). Here is an
example from [**`w-fullstack-jsoo`**](../w-fullstack-jsoo#files):

```json
"esy": {
  "buildsInSource": "_build",
  "build": [
    "dune build --root . client/client.bc.js",
    "mkdir -p static",
    "cp _build/default/client/client.bc.js static/client.js",
    "dune build --root . server/server.exe"
  ]
}
```

<br>

Many of the packages you can obtain with esy are hosted in
[opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/), the OCaml package repository. In esy, their
names are prefixed with `@opam`, like `@opam/dream`. You can search the packages
[here](https://opam.ocaml.org/packages/).

The `devDependencies` field in this example lists packages needed to get
autocompletion working with esy in Visual Studio Code. You must also open the
example in its own workspace, i.e. the root of your Code workspace must be the
example directory.

<br>

In addition to the files you see in this example, `npx esy` also generates a
directory called `esy.lock`. It's a set of lock files, similar to
`package-lock.json`. You should usually commit `esy.lock`. We left it out of
this example to keep it in sync with the Dream repo and its upstream projects.
But this deliberately gives up reproducible builds &mdash; something you
usually want for your own code.

If you'd like to find out the exact version of Dream that esy installed, you
can look in `esy.lock/index.json`, or run `npx esy ls-builds`.

<br>

To copy out a binary generated by esy, run

<pre><code><b>$ npx esy cp '#{self.target_dir}/default/my-binary.exe' .
</b></code></pre>

<br>

You can develop a JavaScript client side-by-side with the server as normal,
with npm or Yarn. Just add `package.json` like you normally would. You may want
to include `esy` itself as a *JavaScript* dependency, so that npm does not
uninstall it from your project:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "esy": "*",
    "client": "normal_js_dependencies"
  }
}
```

You can make this even more powerful by writing the client itself in OCaml,
Reason, or ReScript &mdash; all flavors of OCaml that compile to JavaScript.
See the examples linked below.

<br>

**See also:**

- [**`w-fullstack-rescript`**](../w-fullstack-rescript#files) for full-stack
  development with ReScript.
- [**`r-fullstack-melange`**](../r-fullstack-melange#files) for full-stack
  development with Melange and Reason syntax.
- [**`w-fswatch`**](../w-fswatch#files) for a development watcher.
- [**`w-one-binary`**](../w-one-binary#files) for bundling assets into a
  self-contained binary.

<br>

[Up to the example index](../#examples)
